The Research on Current Status of Digital
Technology System of Electric Power Emergency
Plan
Cheng Guan
Department of Electrical Emergency Response
Grid Intelligent Power Grid Research Institute
Beijing, China
guancheng2009@126.com
Diange Fang
Department of Electrical Emergency Response
Grid Intelligent Power Grid Research Institute
Beijing, China
695467928@qq.com
Tao Li
Department of Electricity Management
Grid Corporation of China
Beijing, China
tao-li@sgcc.com.cn
Xun Zhang, Feng Wei and Hong Zhao
Department of Electrical Emergency Response
Grid Gansu Electric Power Scientific Research Institute
Gansu, China
695977928@qq.com
Abstract—Based on the knowledge system of electric power
emergency command, study the digitalization technology based
on the theories of natural language processing, knowledge
mapping,
scenario-coping,
etc.,
realize
the
autonomous
recognition, categorization, disassembly and optimization of the
text of the emergency plan, establish the ontology model of the
plan by using the knowledge mapping, study the scenario-coping
technology, set up the relational network model, and establish the
digitalization technology system of electric power emergency plan
by combining the above theoretical studies. The above theories
are combined to establish a digital technology system for electric
power emergency plans.
Keywords-emergency planning digitization; natural language
processing; knowledge mapping; scenario-response
I.
INTRODUCTION
The electric power industry has initially realized the
structured disassembly of a single text in the form of "manual
marking + automatic disassembly" with the special emergency
plan as the basic data, constructed the text database and map
database of the special emergency plan for strong convection
and typhoon disasters, and computerized automatic structured
disassembly of the strong convection and typhoon plans of part
of the province and its subordinate municipalities and counties
at the three levels. Structured automatic disassembly. The
formation
of
a
four-in-one
emergency
plan
digitization
technology system of "disassembling-association-matching-
application" is a realistic demand for the construction of the
energy Internet and a strategic choice for the transformation
and upgrading of electric power companies.
This paper uses the methods of literature analysis and
systematic knowledge construction to study the disassembling
technology, storage technology, and application technology of
electric power emergency plans, and to provide theoretical
guidance for constructing a digital plan model and a chained
task instruction template.
II.
CONNOTATION AND CURRENT STATUS OF
RESEARCH ON DIGITIZATION OF EMERGENCY
PREPAREDNESS
A.
Research and Analysis on the Digitization of China's
Emergency Preparedness Plan
Promoting the digitization of emergency plans is an
inevitable requirement for strengthening the construction of the
emergency plan system and strengthening the comprehensive
coordination and articulation functions of the emergency
management department for various types of plans. As a key
technical system to improve the ability to assist emergency
decision-making and command and disposal, the emergency
plan digitization platform can not only connect or take over the
static
"emergency
plan
a
map"
and
other
static
data
management, but also realize the digitization of various
emergency response rule systems under emergency conditions,
which is a powerful hand to realize the unified, scientific and
efficient management of various types of emergency plans at
various levels and will promote a significant shift in the way of
plan
management
and
the
concept
of
emergency
plan
management. It is a powerful hand for realizing the unified
scientific and efficient management of various types of
emergency plans at all levels, and will promote a major change
in the way and concept of plan management[1]. It is a powerful
tool to realize the unified scientific and efficient management
of various types of emergency plans at all levels, and will
promote a major change in the way and concept of plan
management.
The first stage is the electronicization of the emergency
plan, the second stage is the structuring of the emergency plan,
the third stage is the visualization of the emergency plan, and
the fourth stage is the intelligence of the emergency plan.
979-8-3503-6189-6/24/$31.00©2024 IEEE
288
2024 IEEE 14th International Conference on Electronics Information and Emergency Communication (ICEIEC) | 979-8-3503-6189-6/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICEIEC61773.2024.10561800
Authorized licensed use limited to: HUNAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on March 10,2026 at 07:31:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


China's electric power emergency plan digitization is in the
transition from the second stage to the third stage, and the basic
theory of the emergency plan digitization system is built
through natural language processing technology, knowledge
mapping technology, scenario-coping technology, and multi-
source information fusion technology, as shown in Figure 1.
Figure 1.
Technical system framework of digital power emergency plan
B.
Summary of Research on Digitization of International
Emergency Preparedness
Since the research on emergency management theory and
technology in developed countries such as the United States,
Britain and France began in the 1980s of the last century. At
present, they have generally established a relatively complete
emergency
management
application
system,
effectively
integrating risk management, accident simulation, prediction
and
early
warning,
decision-making
support,
material
management and other functions, so that it is very easy to
develop a digital planning system on this basis, and their digital
planning technology has been relatively mature. The digital
planning technology of the United States, the United Kingdom
and other countries has even been applied to hospitals, schools,
residential
communities
and
other
micro-emergency
management areas[2] The digital planning technology has even
been applied to micro emergency management areas such as
hospitals, schools and residential communities.
III.
THEORETICAL STUDY ON THE
DIGITALIZATION STAGE OF ELECTRICITY
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS PLAN
A.
Natural Language Processing for Power Emergency
Preparedness
The text disassembly of the emergency plan is mainly done
through chapter convergence and event extraction[3]. The main
framework structure of emergency plan text disassembly is
constructed by chapter aggregation and event extraction. Then,
according to the rule-based Chinese lexicon and statistical
Chinese lexicon, combined with the power plan dictionary, a
large number of special emergency plans are trained for
lexicon. Then a large amount of experimental data of
traditional machine learning[4] In addition, we propose the
disassembly step of "word-sentence-segmentation" for the
power emergency plan, construct the joint extraction model at
document level, and further process the text with neural
network, combining with the research method of feature
extraction[5]. Combined with the research method of feature
extraction, it reduces the data dimension of the emergency
response plan, organizes the existing data features, completes
the theme recognition, segmentation and clauses, semantic
recognition and additional information acquisition of the plan,
extracts the text entities, and forms a digitalized set of
instructions based on the instructions of the emergency
response plan, which provides effective data support for the
construction of the electric power knowledge graph.
Figure 2.
Natural language processing technology system
B.
Electricity Emergency Planning Knowledge Graph
Construction
Knowledge Graph[6] The construction process is the
process of extracting knowledge elements (facts) from raw data
and depositing them in a knowledge base. Knowledge graph
construction is iterative, and each iteration consists of three
major processes: information extraction, knowledge fusion, and
knowledge processing.
1)
Information extraction
Information
extraction
is
an
automated
process
of
extracting structured information such as entities, relationships,
and entity attributes from semi-structured and unstructured data,
and the key technologies involved include: entity extraction,
relationship extraction, and attribute extraction.
2)
Knowledge integration
Knowledge fusion consists of two main components: entity
linking and knowledge merging. Knowledge fusion ensures the
quality of knowledge by removing ambiguities in concepts and
eliminating redundancies and misconceptions.
3)
Knowledge processing
Facts themselves are not equal to knowledge, and to finally
obtain a structured and networked knowledge system, it is
necessary to go through the process of knowledge processing.
Knowledge processing mainly includes three aspects: ontology
construction, knowledge reasoning and quality assessment. The
updating of knowledge map includes two aspects: one is the
addition of new knowledge; the other is the change of existing
knowledge. At present, there are fewer discussions on the
updating of knowledge graph, mostly from the perspective of
database updating. Although there are many similarities
between the update of knowledge base and the update of
database, the real-time requirement of knowledge base for
knowledge update is higher in comparison. At present, the
updating method of knowledge base is divided into three
categories: one is based on the updating of knowledge base
construction personnel; the second is based on the updating of
spatio-temporal information of knowledge base; and the third is
289
Authorized licensed use limited to: HUNAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on March 10,2026 at 07:31:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


the complete reconstruction of knowledge base. The first way
is more accurate, but there is the disadvantage of consuming a
lot of manual work; the second way is mostly updated by the
knowledge base itself, with less manual intervention, but there
is the problem of low accuracy; the third way does not require
any manual intervention, but it takes a long time, especially
when the size of the knowledge base is very large, so there is
also the problem of inefficiency and high consumption.
Figure 3.
Overall framework of knowledge mapping
C.
Power Emergency Planning Scenarios - Response
Technology Development
The "scenario - response" type of emergency response in
the field of emergency response is mainly proposed for non-
conventional
sudden-onset
disasters
and
accidents,
non-
conventional sudden-onset disasters and accidents due to the
low probability of occurrence, the evolution process is complex,
the path of evolution is not clear and other characteristics, the
previous "prediction - response" type of emergency response
for conventional sudden-onset disasters and accidents is
ineffective. The "prediction-response" type of emergency
response previously proposed for conventional emergencies is
ineffective.
"Scenario-coping"
can
dynamically
generate
emergency decision-making programs to cope with non-
conventional sudden-onset disaster accidents according to their
current and constantly evolving scenarios, which is in essence a
change
in
decision-making
concepts[7].
Analyzed
the
evolution process of non-conventional sudden-onset disaster
accidents, and proposed the inherent law of the evolution
mechanism of such accidents; Pomerol[8] Pomerol et al.
proposed a network expression of scenario evolution and
established an analytical process of scenario evolution of
unconventional disaster accidents; He Jing et al. constructed a
model of evolution of unconventional sudden-onset disaster
accidents; Ahmed et al[9]. Analyzed the steps and methods of
scenario construction; Yuan et al[10]. Constructed a scenario
evolution analysis model of unconventional sudden disaster
accidents based on PSR and Bayesian network.
"Scenario-Response" Smart Grid
Development
Trends
Toward
Cloud
Modeling
and
Situational
Awareness.
Literature[11-12] The application of situational awareness
technology in smart distribution grids is carefully analyzed
from
three
aspects:
situational
awareness,
situational
understanding, and situational prediction. Literature[13] An
overview of the system framework of situational awareness
technology in automatic intelligent dispatching of power grids
is presented.
IV.
TRENDS IN THE DIGITIZATION OF
EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
A.
Exploration of Multi-source Information Fusion
Technology for Electric Power Emergency Plan
The key to multi-source information fusion technology is
data correlation, which is to reorder the observations of a set of
trajectories to reflect the real motion of the target, as shown in
Fig. 4. Data correlation is usually carried out before state
estimation, only to obtain accurate data correlation processing
results, in order to ensure the correctness of the subsequent
processing, there are generally probabilistic data correlation,
Bayesian network, graphical modeling and other research
methods. Combined with the structured disassembly of power
grid emergency plan, there are four main fusion research
directions: text information estimation fusion, monitoring
image fusion, asynchronous emergency information fusion and
heterogeneous emergency information fusion.
Figure 4.
Schematic diagram of data association
B.
Recommendations for the Digital Development of
Electricity Emergency Planning
The key to the digital disassembly of emergency response
plans lies in digital disassembly, while the current traditional
method mainly focuses on how to disassemble text-based plans,
starting from the response mechanism, plan structure, etc., to
carry out logical or structured layer-by-layer disassembly, and
to study and control the disassembly structure and granularity,
while applying simple combinations in specific applications.
The research on the digitization of emergency plans is biased
towards the application of information technology system
platforms, and the research on the structured disassembly of the
plan itself is insufficient, with a low degree of intelligence,
poor disassembly effect, and insufficient applicability for the
emergency response work of on-site personnel; in addition, the
research on the current event extraction and entity linking is
mainly concentrated in the general field, the financial field, and
other non-electricity fields, and relevant research in the field of
electricity is still in the exploratory stage. in the power field is
still in the exploratory stage.
V.
CONCLUSION
This paper combines the practical foundation of power grid
emergency plan digitization and combs the theoretical system
of plan digitization: natural language processing technology,
knowledge mapping technology, scenario-coping technology,
and multi-source information fusion technology, to provide
theoretical basis and logical framework for the digitization and
disassembly of the emergency plan.
290
Authorized licensed use limited to: HUNAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on March 10,2026 at 07:31:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 


On the basis of the theoretical system proposed by, it is
suggested that the electric power industry should focus on the
digital disassembly mechanism of the plan itself, improve the
electric power emergency knowledge map, and develop the
automatic generation system of the on-site emergency plan by
combining with the front-line emergency response work of the
electric power industry. Accelerate the product landing of the
feasibility study results and develop the social benefits and
economic output of the results.
REFERENCES
[1]
LI Yingshun,REN Jing,WANG Jingjing. Discussion on the development
direction and
path of
digitization
of
emergency
plan[J].
China
Emergency Management,2022(09):20-31.
[2]
ZHANG Chao, PEI Yuqi, QIU Hua. Development status and trend of
digital emergency planning technology at home and abroad[J]. China
Production Safety Science and Technology,2010,6(05):154-158.
[3]
Qiang Chen. A convergent model of natural language understanding
process for chapter processing and its application to intelligent
instrument design[D]. Xi'an University of Electronic Science and
Technology.
[4]
H. Ji and R.Grishman. Refining event extraction through crossdocument
inference[C]. 46th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, 2008:254-262.
[5]
Gao Lizheng, Zhou Gang, Luo Junyong,et al. A review of meta-event
extraction research[J]. Computer Science,2019,46(08):9-15.
[6]
Zhang Jixiang, Zhang Xiangsen, Wu Changxu et al. A review of
knowledge
graph
construction
techniques[J].
Computer
Engineering,2022,48(03):23-37.
[7]
Mahmoud M, Liu Y O ,Hartmann H, et al. A formal frameworkfor
scenario development in support of environmental decision-making [J].
Environmental Modeling & Software, 2009, 24( 7) : 798 - 808.
[8]
Pomerol J-C. Scenario development andpractical decisionmaking under
uncertainty [J]. Decision Support Systems ,2001 ,31: 197 -204.
[9]
Ahmed D M, Sundaram D, Piramuthu S. Knowledge-basedprocess and
support [J]. Decisionscenario managementSupport Systems ,2010 ,49:
507 - 520.
[10] YUAN Xiaofang, TIAN Shuicheng, WANG Li. Scenario Analysis of
Unconventional Emergencies Based on PSR and Bayesian Networks
Gang[J]. Chinese Journal of Safety Science,2011,21(1) : 171 - 176.
[11] YE Qiong, LI Shaoqian, ZHANG Youhua,SHU Xingwang,NI Dongping.
A review of cloud modeling and applications[J]. Computer Engineering
and Computing,2011,32(12):4198-4201..
[12] WANG Shouxiang, LIANG Dong, GE Leijiao. Key technology of smart
distribution network situational awareness and situational awareness[J].
Power System Automation,2016,40(12).
[13] YANG Shengchun, TANG Biqiang, YAO Jianguo,et al. Automatic
intelligent scheduling architecture and key technologies for power grid
based on situational awareness[J]. Grid Technology, 2014,38(1):33-39.
291
Authorized licensed use limited to: HUNAN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on March 10,2026 at 07:31:25 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
